## Lists and recursion


1. Define the following functions using pattern matching:

  * `head : 'a list -> 'a option`,
  returning the head of a list, if it is not empty.

  * `tail : 'a list -> 'a list option`,
  returning the tail of a list, if it is not empty


2. Define the following functions using recursion and pattern matching:

  * `last : 'a list -> 'a option`,
  returning the _last_ element of a list, if it is not empty.
  I.e. `last [1; 2; 3; 4; 5] == Some 5`.

  * `init : 'a list -> 'a list option`,
  returning all but the last element of a list, if it is not empty.
  I.e. `init [1; 2; 3; 4; 5] == Some [1; 2; 3; 4]`


3. Define the following functions using recursion and pattern matching:

  * `take : int -> 'a list -> 'a list`,
  that takes the given number of elements of a list.
  So `take 2 [1; 3; 5; 7; 9] == [1; 3]`.

  * `skip : int -> 'a list -> 'a list`,
  that skips the given number of elements of a list.
  So `skip 2 [1; 3; 5; 7; 9] == [5; 7; 9].`


4. Define the following functions using recursion and pattern matching:

  * `length : 'a list -> int`
  that calculates the length of a list.

  * `allTrue : bool list -> bool`
  that determines whether every element of a list of Booleans is true.

  * `allFalse` that similarly determines whether every element of a list of Booleans is false.

  * `contains : 'a -> 'a list -> bool`
  that determines whether a specified element is contained in a given list.

  * `smallest : int list -> int`
  that calculates the smallest value in a list of integers.

  * `largest` that similarly calculates the largest value in a list of integers.

  The purpose of this exercise is to train the list design pattern for defining list consumers.
  However, once we have covered the corresponding material, you may want to return to consider which of these functions can be written more simply using standard higher-order functions like `map` and `fold`.


5. Let us first define some types for DNA strands:

    ```fsharp
    type nucleobase = A | C | G | T
    type dna = nucleobase list
    type segment = nucleobase list
    ```

  Using these three types, define the following functions.
  Make use of recursion and your favourite functions from the ones you defined in the previous exercises.

  * `includes : segment -> dna -> bool`
  that checks whether a specified DNA segment is included in a DNA strand.
  Can you modify the definition so that a list of positions of occurrences is returned instead?

  * `longestOnlyAs : dna -> int`
  that computes (the length of) the longest segment that includes only the nucleobase A.
  Can you make a new definition `longestOnly` which abstracts away from the nucleobase `A`?

  * `longestAtMostTenAs : dna -> int` that computes (the length of) the longest segment that includes at most ten occurrences of the nucleobase A.
  (This is more challenging. Don’t spend too much time on this part.)
